hey there grab your popcorn and hot dogs
this is gearing up to be the spectacle
of the century
we'll compare ancient water monsters in
several categories
then pit them against each other in a
duel to see which one's the true queen
of the water the contender on the left
needs no introduction
the alpha the boss the legend that lived
on our planet 3.6 million years ago
she's still the hero of myths and
legends and a nightmare for fishermen
around the world
make some noise for meg the megalodon
[Applause]
in the right corner sarcosuchus
aka sarki she's the ancestor of today's
crocodiles and a real grandma compared
to meg
she lived about 120 million years ago
and saw the dinosaurs
come and go they were even her breakfast
sometimes
she lived in what is now the sahara but
there was no desert then
and the world looked totally different
although this crocodile
isn't as famous as meg she's still not
afraid to go up against the giant shark
round one size
since the only remains of the megalodon
are teeth and vertebrae
her true size remains a mystery but if
we compare her remains to the bodies of
modern sharks
we get the incredible size of 50 feet
that's like one and a half buses
but i bet you wouldn't want to take a
ride on that kind of transport
meg's fin alone is the size of an adult
this ancient monster remains the largest
shark that
ever existed the largest white shark
ever measured
was 17 feet long that's less than half
now sarki's turn until recently we only
had the teeth of this ancient crocodile
to go on
but then scientists discovered some new
remains
and they were able to figure out just
how big she really was
sarki was as long as a limousine about
30 feet
the largest crocodile ever measured was
a saltwater crocodile
only 20 feet sarki's head was five
feet long that's almost a whole person
and her mouth
had a special mace shaped tip but even
with that
she's still only half the length of meg
so the ancient shark wins this round and
the first point
goes to meg one to nothing
the next category is weight
let's start with the contender in the
right corner
the largest modern crocodiles weigh
about a ton
sarki made it all the way up to four
tons that's like
two helicopters heavy her weight and
size
allowed sarki to be queen of the ancient
river but she's pretty much
a toothpick compared to meg
you'd need a pretty hefty set of
bathroom scales to weigh the contender
in the left corner
once fully grown meg weighed between 30
to 60 tons
that's a lot a cargo helicopter can lift
9 tons
it would take around 5 of them to lift
meg safely
the heaviest shark nowadays the white
shark
only 3 500 pounds
meg wins the second round and the giant
shark gets another point
two to nothing moving on
the next category is agility
[Applause]
we can assume that sarki could reach the
same speed as most modern crocodiles
in the water we're looking at up to 20
miles per hour
that's about three times faster than the
fastest human swimmer
her speed mostly comes from her long and
muscly tail it's one of the strongest
muscles in her body
and gives her speed and agility but
sarki
wasn't limited to the water world she
liked to move around on land too
like the big modern crocodiles she could
probably run
at speeds up to 20 miles per hour this
allowed her to go after
other animals not just fish she
definitely had a soft spot for large
lizards
and even small dinosaurs
so what about meg it's hard to move such
a massive muscle machine
her maximum speed was around 10 miles
per hour
that allowed her to catch up with whales
and smaller fish
she felt pretty good about herself but
10 miles per hour is not really that
fast
modern white sharks can reach 35 miles
per hour
that's three times faster than meg so
our giant shark was more like a truck
than a ferrari slow to accelerate slow
to break
and extremely bad at turning if meg
wanted to run the 100 meters
it'd probably take her about 50 seconds
the human world record
is just under 47 seconds but that's in a
pool
where you have to pull a u-turn halfway
there's
no way meg could do that looks like meg
lost a bit of ground to the agile
crocodile
and our river monster is finally up on
the board 2-1
in favor of meg okay
next round how about we call it eating
tools
of course meg's main tool is her teeth
megalodon means big tooth
she had the largest teeth ever recorded
five rows of teeth 250 in total
the largest ones were over seven inches
long and you better believe they were
all razor sharp
that's definitely enough to bite through
a tough leather couch
know what i mean so if you ever saw meg
smile at you
well that's probably the last smile
you'll ever see
and her jaw's incredible you could drive
a car into her mouth
or lie down in it with room to spare
her bite force was so strong that it
could easily bend metal
whales dolphins fish fishing boats
crunch munch
gun sarki's teeth are a bit different
but no less awesome and powerful than
the biggest shark of all time
she had 70 teeth up top and 62 down on
the bottom
their shape allowed sarki to grab her
lunch and never let go
crocodiles in general have one of the
strongest bites of any species
and it's their main superpower but don't
forget about that tale
sarki's was so heavy and strong it'd be
like getting hit by a motorbike
that kind of versatility earns sarki one
more point
we're all tied up at two
bonus round audience sympathy prize
if meg were around today she'd
definitely live in hollywood
making movies tv shows commercials and
she always seems to play the villain
well she's also the hero of countless
scary stories told by fishermen around
the world
many people even believe that she's
still swimming about down there
somewhere hiding from us in deep waters
like the mariana trench
but meg needs a lot of food to feed such
a large body
she'd have to keep coming up to the
surface to find enough to eat
so so much for that myth and sarki
she's more of an indie artist not really
the hollywood type
but like all crocodiles she puts fear
into anyone who lives near a river
crocodiles love that late night snack so
a lot of people are even afraid to leave
their homes after sunset
and locals sometimes find crocodiles in
their backyards
imagine seeing sarki laid out on your
brand new deck let's give sarki this
round
and she's taking the lead three to two
okay the final round is all about that x
factor
combat skills meg still holds the crown
for the most dangerous you'd ever come
across in open water
and it's mostly thanks to her
intelligence and strategy
we can figure out meg's tactics by
looking at other animals from that time
many ancient whale bones have scratches
from meg's teeth
it seems like she knew where the weakest
points of various animals were located
so she knew where to nibble at first she
seemed to enjoy a little thin
appetizer before each meal sometimes
she'd give them a nudge first
they weren't swimming away after that
kind of impact then
it's main course time
sarki may seem weaker but she's full of
surprises
she's fast and agile so she could easily
catch up with even the fastest mammals
that had come to get a little drink of
river water
and when she bites she never lets go but
scientists say
sarki probably couldn't do all those
awesome wrestling moves that today's
crocodiles love to do
she couldn't roll around holding her
lunch in her teeth
the structure of her head simply didn't
allow her to do that
but even so she pretty much always came
out on top
not too many crocodiles go hungry
sarki had a good round but we have to
give this one to meg she's
just too awesome and we're all tied up
again
three to three well it's time for the
big face-to-face matchup
the arena the place where the mighty
river meets the vast ocean
sarki's great at hiding and sneaking up
on people and so
she gets the first go meg tries to dodge
but the ancient crocodile already found
a tasty fin unfortunately
sarki's teeth are a little too short to
cause even the slightest harm to big old
meg
she breaks free and pushes the crocodile
with her powerful body
sarki looks stunned and meg sees her
chance to make a u-turn and
end it she gathers speed and
oh it's all over with a single bite k-o
meg has defended her title and remains
the undisputed champion of the world
who will challenge her next